feat: [CDS-91915]: Add Knowledge base how bidirectional sync prevent github api limit (#5730)
harness/developer-hub: kb/continuous-delivery/articles/biderectional-sync-prevent-github-api-limit.md

---
description: KB - How Bidirectional sync prevent Github API Limit issue
title: Preventing GitHub API Rate Limits with Bidirectional Sync
---
# Introduction

> This knowledge base article discusses how Bidirectional Sync can help prevent reaching the GitHub API limit issue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This knowledge base article discusses how bidirectional sync can help prevent reaching the GitHub API limit issue.
```

## API rate limits, what causes them?

> Github limits the number of REST API requests that you can make within a specific amout of time. Sometimes, the number is extrememly high and stops remote entitites from working. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
GitHub limits the number of REST API requests that you can make within a specific amount of time. Sometimes, the number is high and stops remote entities from working. 
```

## Solving GitHub API Limits with Bidirectional Sync

> In bidirectioal sync, changes made on either the Git repository or Harness are automatically synchronized. Updates to the entity on the platform are determined by the received event payload.Therefore, it is required to enable bidirectional sync congiguration before the remote entities are created. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In bidirectional sync, changes made on either the Git repository or Harness are automatically synchronized. Updates to the entity on the platform are determined by the received event payload. Therefore, it is required to enable bidirectional sync configuration before the remote entities are created. 
```

> Read more on how to enable [Biderectional Sync](/docs/platform/git-experience/gitexp-bidir-sync-setup.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Read more on how to enable [Biderectional Sync](/docs/platform/git-experience/gitexp-bidir-sync-setup/).
```

---
description: KB - How Bidirectional sync prevent Github API Limit issue
title: Preventing GitHub API Rate Limits with Bidirectional Sync
---
# Introduction

> This knowledge base article discusses how bidirectional sync can help prevent reaching the GitHub API limit issue. 

Reviewer 2: We dont need to specify a git provider, we can just tell Git rate limit issue

Reviewer 2: you can change this everywhere GitHub is mentioned

---
description: KB - How Bidirectional sync prevent Git API Limit issue
title: Preventing Git API Rate Limits with Bidirectional Sync
---
# Introduction

> This knowledge base article discusses how bidirectional sync can help prevent reaching the Git API limit issue. 

Author: Yup added rate, thanks for noticing. Appreciate it.

## API rate limits, what causes them?

Git limits the number of REST API requests that you can make within a specific amount of time. Sometime, the number of API request at a specific period of time is high and it stops the remote entitites from working.

## Solving GitHub API Limits with Bidirectional Sync

In bidirectional sync, changes made on either the Git repository or Harness are automatically synchronized. With bidirectional sync, files are cached at Harness's end, creating a copy of Git. Instead of making frequent requests to the Git API for every operation, the system can rely on the cached data for all tasks, thus reducing overall API usage.

> In bidirectional sync, the source of truth is Harness's cached data. Therefore, instead of making API calls to Git every time, bidirectional sync fetches the data from Harness Cache, thus limiting the risk of reaching API limits.

Reviewer 3: You've said the same thing twice in line 15 and 17, I think one of these might be leftovers from an edit.

Author: Yup didn't noticed, thanks for pointing @SushrutHarness. I have removed the second para
